The maintenance staff located at MOVERS garage is responsible for ensuring that all vehicles
are completely road worthy and that staff are fully trained in all matters relating to the vans,
including how to load the vehicles properly to distribute weight. Each van must be checked
once a month for tyres, brakes, oil and lights. A log is maintained in the vehicle garage and this
should contain details of each monthly check including the date, time and the staff member
who conducted the check. Any work done on the van must be recorded in the MAINTENANCE
LOG. Van drivers will be scheduled to bring a particular van to the garage for maintenance,
depending on availability. They should receive notice of the date and time of the appointment by
email. They are not required to book the appointment themselves. When a van is due for MOT,
a full service must be conducted before the test. All vans should have a full-service history. The
maintenance manager is responsible for organising the scheduling of maintenance. He will
check the JOBS file and the DAILY schedule to help organise the appointments.
The maintenance manager is also required to manage the stock in the garage. This is
particularly important as the vehicles are in constant use and the time taken to reorder items
can impact on schedules. He must check the stock regularly to help him estimate stock
requirements. When necessary, he must complete a STOCK REORDER form and send it to the
offi ce so that the administrative staff can order the necessary items. When stock is delivered the
maintenance manager must reconcile orders with deliveries and report any discrepancies.
The maintenance manager is responsible for staff training. This is a big task and the JOBS fi le
and the DAILY schedule must be thoroughly checked before any arrangements are made. New
drivers must complete three training sessions regarding the range of vans, load distribution,
lifting, simple repairs, fault reports and accidents as well as any relevant legislation. All drivers
and assistants must attend a refresher session once a year. The maintenance manager
arranges several training sessions so that all staff have at least one opportunity to attend.
They will receive a Certifi cate of Competence on satisfactory completion of the training and an
associated practical test.
